oxygenic photosynthesis depends on what
we call a non cyclic
photophosphorylation scheme sometimes
called a z scheme and in its really
looks very complex and we're gonna try
to break it down for you the main thing
you need to concentrate on that there
are two different photo systems and
there's photosystem one shown here and
photosystem two shown here and we're
going to start off with photosystem two
because this is the pathway of electrons
through these photo systems so as I said
before each photosystem is surrounded by
these light harvesting complexes that
are funneling light energy so if we
begin by looking at photosystem 2 when
it it's chlorophyll becomes oxidized and
loses its electrons then the marvelous
thing that cyanobacteria invented is
that oxidized photosystem 2 is able to
immediately regain electrons by ripping
apart a water molecule and in the
process it generates oxygen gas and
protons and this is occurring in the
lumen of the thylakoid
so it's releasing protons by ripping
apart water and releasing oxygen gas the
oxygen gas escapes to the atmosphere but
the protons stay in the thylakoid lumen
and as you can see as more and more
water molecules are ripped apart
we will accumulate more and more protons
in the thylakoid lumen which is an
important consideration now what about
the electrons that photosystem 2 gave up
those electrons from photosystem 2 go
down a series of electron carriers and
we will
consider this assembly being the
electron transport chain the
photosynthetic electron transport chain
it's analogous to the electron transport
chain in mitochondria in that as it's a
series of oxidation reaction reduction
reactions they're passing off electrons
from one component to the next and in
the process we get pumping of protons
from the chloroplast stroma to the
interior of the thylakoid the thylakoid
lumen so here it shows the pumping of a
proton into the thylakoid room lumen
so the electron transport chain in
photosynthetic membranes pumps protons
across the membrane to generate a proton
gradient or to help generate the proton
gradient across the membrane just like
the electron transport chain does in
mitochondria so if we follow the
electrons that go down the electron
transport chain and they come to
photosystem one so while photosystem 2
is absorbing light energy and becoming
oxidized the same thing is happening
with photosystem one photosystem 1 is
simultaneously also being illuminated
irradiated with light energy it's
reaction center chlorophylls become
oxidized and it gives up its electrons
and reduces ferredoxin which is sort of
an electron carrier intermediate and
ferredoxin then reduces nadp+
this is our photosynthetic or NADP our
photosynthetic electron carrier nadp+ is
a photosynthetic electron carrier and
nad plus is reduced to NADPH so this is
exactly equivalent to nad plus being
reduced to NADH during respiration so
here is our complete electron flow from
water molecules through photosystem ii
down the electron transport
change at the end of the electron
transport chain is oxidized photosystem
1 and from photosystem 1 upon absorption
of light energy these electrons then are
used ultimately to reduce nadp+ to nadph
so in the process we have generated an
electron or I'm sorry a proton motive
force across the membrane and just like
we saw with oxidative phosphorylation in
chloroplasts across the thylakoid
membrane we have an ATP synthase which
is very similar to the mitochondrial ATP
synthase and just like the mitochondrial
ATP synthase the proton motive force
drives ATP synthesis so in summary then
non cyclic electron flow generates
oxygen gas it generates a proton
gradient across the membrane which is
used to power ATP synthesis and it
generates reducing power to reduce nadp+
to nadph and this equation that I've
written here at the bottom summarizes
all of them so here is an energy diagram
of non cyclic electron flow showing that
light energy is used to boost electrons
to higher energy states then we have the
electron transport chain
I've got decreasing in energy and that
is used to indirectly power ATP
synthesis by generating a proton
gradient and when the electrons arrive
at photosystem one again like boost them
to an even higher energy level which is
enough to reduce nadp+
to nadph so here is our summary of
non-cyclic electron flow we have two
photosystems and i would like you to
remember that these two photosystems do
different things well the system two
gets its electrons from water it's gonna
give its electrons to the electron
transport chain and the main products of
photosystem ii that we're interested in
anyway are oxygen gas ATP through
chemiosmotic ATP synthesis photosystem
one gets its electrons from the electron
transport chain it's at the end of the
electron transport chain it gives its
electrons to ultimately nadp+ to make
NADPH